# Retail_Database
The goal of my project is to showcase my ability in developing and implementing a functional database management system that will help manage a fictional convenience store business named Mini-Mart. The database will be easy to use, while also providing some unique insights on how to make the business more profitable. The database will support the relationships between the business and the community it serves. It will document and track employee information, item inventory levels, customer purchase history, among other things. The use of my database will increase accuracy, accountability, profits, and more. Currently, the business uses an Excel spreadsheet to keep track of everything. However, as we already know, Microsoft Excel is not a viable tool to support the management of an entire database system. Along with having a limit to the number of records an Excel spreadsheet can contain, the performance of the application slows down considerably as you incrementally reach those limits. The lack of version control and the lack of data manipulation tools in Excel also prevents a business from running optimally. Another issue that comes up when using Excel is that the tables across the organization do not automatically connect to each other. This prevents the seamless transfer of information from one table to another (Holmes, 2020). Databases in general have a lot of benefits to any organization. Through Postgresql, Mini-Mart will have fewer data redundancies and fewer inconsistencies than a typical file-processing system. The business’ information will be easily accessible to anyone who is authorized. A centralized database will make it efficient to retrieve all sorts of information in comparison to isolated data locations that make collecting and analyzing data more cumbersome than it has to be. To complement the business’ new database, a Tableau dashboard will be developed so stakeholders can quickly access relevant metrics that will help them support the business further. With the implementation of these new tools and resources, The Mini-Mart will be able to better serve their customers and generate more profits moving forward.
